---
name: Shakira Ssebyala
majors: Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
position: NYU Sackler School of Medicine SURP
image: shakirah.jpeg
---


"Following my first Introductory Biology in spring 2016, I developed interest in research. “Did I even know what research was?” is the question that ran through my mind. Moreover, with no research experience at all, I had no idea where to even start so I sought out to the OURS office. One of the advisors, gave me hope that I would start somewhere and with her hard work made finding a good research internship much less stressful. After screening through so many programs that late in the semester, she was able to find me my first research experience as a freshman. That summer I worked in the Antimicrobial Discovery lab at Northeastern University in Boston. The goal of my project was to identify novel antimicrobial compounds from the naturally producing Xeno and Photorhabdus bacteria. After this incredible experience where I learnt multiple skills, I went on to work in Dr. Jerry’s lab here on campus where we study the role of estrogen and p53 in the development of breast cancer. Stemming from the major goal of the lab, I continue studying the role of estrogen receptor beta in the genomic surveillance of the mammary epithelium. Together with Deb, we found this summer's experience ending up doing clinical research experience with Dr. Richard Possemato lab at NYU School of Medicine, studying cancer cell metabolism. I had an independent project studying the effect of suppressing polymerase epsilon in tumorigenesis of high-grade serous ovarian carcinomas, the most common yet deadly subtype of ovarian cancer. Besides research, this experience gave me the opportunity to shadow 2 Emergency physicians allowing me to explore possible career paths which inspired my future goals. I hope to continue doing research as it's especially fascinating. I must say that I would not have been able to find such great programs without Deb and we are definitely fortunate to have the OURS office."
